I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled
today we're going to be looking at the
desert island drama from 2000 castaway
directed by Robert Zemeckis starring Tom
Hanks and while mainly just Tom Hanks
the film was a big success and touched a
chord with audiences around the world
for a variety of reasons he even boosted
the number of applicants for jobs at
FedEx by 30 percent though the film was
in no way sponsored by the company while
the ending of the movie didn't exactly
leave people scratching their heads it
left many audiences wanting for a more
cut-and-dry resolution to the story so
let's take a look Tom Hanks plays Chuck
Noland a systems engineer his job is to
travel around the globe attempting to
improve productivity and timeliness at
FedEx Depot's at Christmas Chuck has to
go to Malaysia suddenly leaving his
partner Kelly disappointed and
frustrated in his absence over the
holiday period the plane he's on goes
through a storm and crashes into the
Pacific Ocean
Chuck survives and ends up on an
uninhabited island along with a
smattering of FedEx packages which he
opens to hopefully find anything that
could be of use to him yeah he stopped
with the last package that has a drawing
of angel wings on the front and decides
not to open it
[Music]
for the next four years he survives on
the island and as memorable as the
Wilson volleyball was we're focusing on
the ending here so let's just skip to
the end
Chuck is eventually rescued by a passing
ship on his raft and is returned back to
the populated world but not back to
normalcy Chuck has to adjust to a lot of
things most of all the fact that his
long-term partner Kelly has married and
had a daughter has all had assumed he
was dead at this point Chuck had still
held on to the angel wings package and
for four years never opened it whatever
was inside could have helped him or it
could have been useless the added
personal touch of the drawing on the box
and probably the fact that it was the
last package he had left likely cause
Chuck to leave it unopened as a way to
hold on to hope much like his driven
sense of pride and duty in his job the
crazy idea of keeping the package
unsealed and delivering it back to the
sender one day was a beacon of his own
personal determination to survive in the
film's final scene we find Chuck in
Texas attempting to deliver the package
to the sender's address but no one is
home so he leaves it along with a note
at the door he ends up a crossroad
unsure of where to go next the rest of
his life wide open to be explored
in any direction he chooses
[Music]
you love lost I do where are you headed
well I was just about to figure that out
well that's 83 south and this road here
I'll hook you up with i-40 East if you
turn right that'll take you to Amarillo
Flagstaff California and if you head
back that direction you'll find a whole
lot of nothing all the way to Canada I
got it all right good luck cowboy
now before we get to the end of the
ending we need to go way way back to the
beginning of the movie here we see the
same crossroads and the same ranch with
the package being picked up to be
delivered to Russia the woman who lives
at the ranch Bettina is sending it to
her husband dick around her ranch we can
see many of her signature angel wings
creations and she's even welding a new
one in the barn
when the package is picked up by FedEx
we see the package arrived in Russia and
handed to dick who doesn't seem to be
enthused with a parcel from his wife no
doubt returning it unopened the big
question is what the hell was in the
package the director Robert Zemeckis has
joked that it was in fact a waterproof
solar-powered satellite phone in reality
though the answer remains unrevealed and
it ultimately doesn't matter the story
is Chuck holding on to something that
gave him the strength to push on to
survive and to hold on to the unlikely
dream that he could one day return it
the angel wings can also easily be seen
as a symbol of the package itself being
Chuck's guardian angel of sorts and his
hope for a miracle as he wrote in his
note it saved his life the contents are
entirely unrelated could have easily
served to turn the ending of the film
into a joke no matter what was inside it
wouldn't have made much of a difference
but you still want to know right because
I can tell you oh yes you see in the
third draft of the script on the 1000th
day of Chuck being on the island he
decides to open the package inside he
finds a note and two bottles of salsa
verde he reads the note aloud you said
our life was a prison dull boring empty
I can't begin to tell you how much that
hurt I don't want to lose you I'm
enclosing some salsa the word you like
use it on your sticky rice and think of
home then come home to me we'll find the
spice in our lives again together I love
you always
Betina visibly moved Chuck puts down the
letter he never got it after this Chuck
puts the bottles back into the package
along with the note and continues
carrying it with him it doesn't make
much of a difference at the beginning of
the film the arch over the ranch
both Bettina and Dix named over it at
the end of the film dicks name has been
removed so clearly the marriage wasn't
saved
so when Chuck sees the angel wings on
the back of the truck he realizes who
patina is and that she inadvertently
helped them to survive in some way
they're two characters who have lost
their partners in very different
circumstances and find themselves
through fates at the same crossroads at
the end of the film though Chuck's
future is much more uncertain in the
final moment he walks out and looks down
each road eventually turning his gaze
back to betina's car back to his savior
and smiles ever so slightly
[Music]
you can take it both ways that he smiled
and thought of going back to explain
everything to Bettina in full and maybe
those two lost souls could have found
something in each other or maybe just
having seen who the mysterious sender
was after all these years was enough for
Chuck it was closure it was enough for
him to move on with his life here's what
Tom Hanks had to say about the final
scene of the film somehow at the end of
the movie you can stand on the
crossroads and it's going to be okay
it's going to be alright as long as you
keep breathing and have a certain kind
of perspective and proportion to your
life so there you have it it's a simple
yet powerful movie with a simple yet
powerful ending we've all been in places
in our lives where the future scene was
wildly uncertain and Chuck has been
through more than most but I like that
quote from Hanks and think it can apply
to a lot of people who feel lost in life
it's going to be alright as long as you
keep breathing
I've been Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm
thank you for watching and we'll see you
next time on movie endings explain
[Music]
you